docs/getting-started/host-your-website-using-ENS.md, before:

---
title: Host Your Website on Swarm
id: host-your-website-using-ens
---

Bee treats ENS as a first class citizen, wherever you can use a Swarm reference, you can also use an ENS domain where the `content` ENS Resolver record is set to be a `bzz://` reference.

:::info
You may substitute ENS names for Swarm references in any of the [API methods](/docs/api-reference/api-reference) where you would normally use a Swarm reference.
:::

### Enable ENS on Your Node

In order to resolve ENS names using your API endpoints, you must specify a valid ENS resolver endpoint when starting your Bee node. We recommend that users run their own Geth node, which can be trusted absolutely, however service providers such as [https://cloudflare-eth.com](https://cloudflare-eth.com) or [Infura](https://infura.io) may suffice. Public gateways such as [gateway.ethswarm.org](https://gateway.ethswarm.org) will also usually provide ENS resolution.

```sh
bee start --resolver-options "https://cloudflare-eth.com"
```

### Link an ENS domain to a website.

First we will need to upload the website assets to Swarm in order to get it's Swarm reference hash, see [uploading a directory](/docs/getting-started/upload-a-directory) for more information.

This time we will also include the `Swarm-Index-Document` header set to the `index.html`. This will cause Bee to serve each directories `index.html` file as default when browsing to the directory root `/` url. We will also provide a custom error page, using the `Swarm-Error-Document` header.

In the case that your website is a single page app, where you would like to direct to the javascript history api powered router, you may provide the `index.html` page for both settings.

```sh
curl \
	-X POST \
	-H "Content-Type: application/x-tar" \
	-H "Swarm-Index-Document: index.html" \
	-H "Swarm-Error-Document: index.html" \
	--data-binary @my_website.tar http://localhost:1633/dirs
```

```json
{"reference":"b25c89a401d9f26811680476619a1eb4a4e189e614bc6161cbfd8b343214917b"}
```

Next, we add a `Content` record to your ENS domain's resolver contract.

We recommend the excellent [ENS Domains Dapp](https://app.ens.domains/) used with the [Metamask](https://metamask.io/) browser extension for registering and administrating your ENS domain.

Once you have registered your name, and have connected Metamask with the relevant Ethereum account, you must first set the resolver to use the public ENS if you have not already done so.

First, navigate to 'My Names', and select the name you would like to link your Swarm content to.

Press 'Set' next to your resolver record.

![alt text](/img/ens-1.png "Press set resolver.")

Choose the public resolver.

![alt text](/img/ens-2.png "Choose the public resolver.")

Press add a record.

![alt text](/img/ens-3.png "Press add a record.")

Choose the Content Record type from the drop down menu.

![alt text](/img/ens-4.png "Choose the content record type from the drop down menu.")

Add the Swarm reference you created earlier and press 'save'.

![alt text](/img/ens-5.png "Add the Swarm reference you created earlier and press 'save'.")

Verify the Content Record has been created!

![alt text](/img/ens-6.png "Add the Swarm reference you created earlier.")

Done! 👏 

Now you will be able to see your website hosted using the ENS name instead of the Swarm Reference!

![alt text](/img/ens-7.png "View your website using the ENS name.")

Commit message:

added info and warn box with respect to resolver configuration

docs/getting-started/host-your-website-using-ENS.md, after:

---
title: Host Your Website on Swarm
id: host-your-website-using-ens
---

Bee treats ENS as a first class citizen, wherever you can use a Swarm reference, you can also use an ENS domain where the `content` ENS Resolver record is set to be a `bzz://` reference.

:::info
You may substitute ENS names for Swarm references in any of the [API methods](/docs/api-reference/api-reference) where you would normally use a Swarm reference.
:::

### Enable ENS on Your Node

In order to resolve ENS names using your API endpoints, you must specify a valid ENS resolver endpoint when starting your Bee node. We recommend that users run their own Geth node, which can be trusted absolutely, however service providers such as [https://cloudflare-eth.com](https://cloudflare-eth.com) or [Infura](https://infura.io) may suffice. Public gateways such as [gateway.ethswarm.org](https://gateway.ethswarm.org) will also usually provide ENS resolution.

```sh
bee start --resolver-options "https://cloudflare-eth.com"
```

:::info
Use the `resolver-options` flag to set point the bee resolver to any ens-compatible smart-contract on any evm-compatible chain
:::
:::warn
When your bee node, or the bee node of a gateway that you are interacting with is not connected to the standard EVM contract on Ethereum mainnet, familiar names (e.g. `swarm.eth`) may resolve to different content.
:::
### Link an ENS domain to a website.

First we will need to upload the website assets to Swarm in order to get it's Swarm reference hash, see [uploading a directory](/docs/getting-started/upload-a-directory) for more information.

This time we will also include the `Swarm-Index-Document` header set to the `index.html`. This will cause Bee to serve each directories `index.html` file as default when browsing to the directory root `/` url. We will also provide a custom error page, using the `Swarm-Error-Document` header.

In the case that your website is a single page app, where you would like to direct to the javascript history api powered router, you may provide the `index.html` page for both settings.

```sh
curl \
	-X POST \
	-H "Content-Type: application/x-tar" \
	-H "Swarm-Index-Document: index.html" \
	-H "Swarm-Error-Document: index.html" \
	--data-binary @my_website.tar http://localhost:1633/dirs
```

```json
{"reference":"b25c89a401d9f26811680476619a1eb4a4e189e614bc6161cbfd8b343214917b"}
```

Next, we add a `Content` record to your ENS domain's resolver contract.

We recommend the excellent [ENS Domains Dapp](https://app.ens.domains/) used with the [Metamask](https://metamask.io/) browser extension for registering and administrating your ENS domain.

Once you have registered your name, and have connected Metamask with the relevant Ethereum account, you must first set the resolver to use the public ENS if you have not already done so.

First, navigate to 'My Names', and select the name you would like to link your Swarm content to.

Press 'Set' next to your resolver record.

![alt text](/img/ens-1.png "Press set resolver.")

Choose the public resolver.

![alt text](/img/ens-2.png "Choose the public resolver.")

Press add a record.

![alt text](/img/ens-3.png "Press add a record.")

Choose the Content Record type from the drop down menu.

![alt text](/img/ens-4.png "Choose the content record type from the drop down menu.")

Add the Swarm reference you created earlier and press 'save'.

![alt text](/img/ens-5.png "Add the Swarm reference you created earlier and press 'save'.")

Verify the Content Record has been created!

![alt text](/img/ens-6.png "Add the Swarm reference you created earlier.")

Done! 👏 

Now you will be able to see your website hosted using the ENS name instead of the Swarm Reference!

![alt text](/img/ens-7.png "View your website using the ENS name.")
