docs/getting-started/upload-a-directory.md, before:

---
title: Upload a Directory
id: upload-a-directory
---

It is possible to use Bee to upload whole directory structures at once. 

:::info
If an uploaded directory contain an `index.html` file. When you navigate to the directory in a web browser, it will automatically be served to users from our [Swarm gateways](https://gateway.ethswarm.org) as if it were a website hosted by a normal web server! You can use this feature to host unstoppable websites in Swarm.
:::

This feature makes use of the [tar](https://www.gnu.org/software/tar/) command line utility to package the directory into a single file that can then uploaded to the Bee API for processing and distributed into the swarm for later retrieval.

:::caution
In the current version of Bee, g-zip compression in not supported, so make sure not to use the `-z` flag!
:::

## Upload the Directory Containing Your Website
First, use the `tar` command line utility to create an archive containing all the files of your directory. If uploading a website, we must take care to ensure that the `index.html` file is at the root of the directory tree.

```bash
tree build
> 
my_website
├── assets
│   └── style.css
└── index.html
```

```bash
$ tar -cf my_website.tar assets index.html
```

Next, simply POST the `tar` file as binary data to Bee's `dir` endpoint, taking care to include the header `Content Type: application/x-tar`.

```bash
curl \
	-X POST \
	-H "Content-Type: application/x-tar" \
	--data-binary @my_website.tar http://localhost:8080/dirs
```

When the upload is successful, Bee will return a json document containing the Swarm Reference.

```json
{"reference":"b25c89a401d9f26811680476619a1eb4a4e189e614bc6161cbfd8b343214917b"}
```

Now, simply navigate your browser to view the reference using the `bzz` endpoint and your website will be served!

[http://localhost:8080/bzz/b25c89a...214917b/index.html](http://localhost:8080/bzz/b25c89a401d9f26811680476619a1eb4a4e189e614bc6161cbfd8b343214917b/index.html) 

Other files are served at their relative paths, e.g.

[http://localhost:8080/bzz/b25c89a...214917b/assets/style.css](http://localhost:8080/bzz/b25c89a401d9f26811680476619a1eb4a4e189e614bc6161cbfd8b343214917b/assets/style.css) 

Once your data has been [fully processed into the network](/docs/advanced/tags), you will then be able to retrieve it from any Bee node.

[https://gateway.ethswarm.org/bzz/b25c89a...214917b/index.html](https://gateway.ethswarm.org/bzz/b25c89a401d9f26811680476619a1eb4a4e189e614bc6161cbfd8b343214917b/index.html)

<!-- If you are not able to download your file from a different Bee node, you may be experiencing connection issues, see [troubleshooting connectivity](/docs/troubleshooting/connectivitiy) for assistance. -->

Commit message:

Update v0.4.0 (#101)
* fix pss hashes

* update node version requirement

* change ports (#98)

* update api

* update version number

* update config

* update version number

* formatting

* correct error

* fix typo

* fix pss hashes

* improve format

* update version number

* update configuration

* update api

* rewrite persistence

* fix bootnode

* improve copy

* update favicon

* add package managers

* improve title

* additional stuff for packages

* correct formatting, improve copy

* reorganise user flows

* improve copy, add backups

* update open api docs

* add macos and arm64 (#102)

* add macos and arm64

* remove info field for clef post install

* add more MacOS instructions

* fix dpkg to rpm for rpm packages

* correct size typo

* update openapi specs

Co-authored-by: Ivan Vandot <ivan@vandot.rs>

docs/getting-started/upload-a-directory.md, after:

---
title: Upload a Directory
id: upload-a-directory
---

It is possible to use Bee to upload whole directory structures at once. 

:::info
If an uploaded directory contain an `index.html` file. When you navigate to the directory in a web browser, it will automatically be served to users from our [Swarm gateways](https://gateway.ethswarm.org) as if it were a website hosted by a normal web server! You can use this feature to host unstoppable websites in Swarm.
:::

This feature makes use of the [tar](https://www.gnu.org/software/tar/) command line utility to package the directory into a single file that can then uploaded to the Bee API for processing and distributed into the swarm for later retrieval.

:::caution
G-zip compression is not supported the current version of Bee, so make sure not to use the `-z` flag when using the `tar` command!
:::

## Upload the Directory Containing Your Website
First, use the `tar` command line utility to create an archive containing all the files of your directory. If uploading a website, we must take care to ensure that the `index.html` file is at the root of the directory tree.

```bash
tree build
> 
my_website
├── assets
│   └── style.css
├── index.html
└── error.html
```

Now, we `cd` into the directory and bundle the whole directory as a tar file. This strategy ensures that the tar package maintains the correct directory structure. You may also pass an absolute path instead of `../my_website.tar`

```bash
cd my_website
tar -cf ../my_website.tar *
```

Next, simply POST the `tar` file as binary data to Bee's `dir` endpoint, taking care to include the header `Content Type: application/x-tar`.

```bash
curl \
	-X POST \
	-H "Content-Type: application/x-tar" \
	-H "Swarm-Index-Document: index.html" \
	-H "Swarm-Error-Document: error.html" 
	--data-binary @my_website.tar http://localhost:1633/dirs
```

:::info
For instances where a Single Page App has a javascript router which handles url queries itself, simple pass `index.html` as the error document, and Bee will pass over control to the javascript served by the `index.html` file in the circumstance that a path does not yield a file from the manifest. 
:::

When the upload is successful, Bee will return a json document containing the Swarm Reference.

```json
{"reference":"b25c89a401d9f26811680476619a1eb4a4e189e614bc6161cbfd8b343214917b"}
```

Now, simply navigate your browser to view the reference using the `bzz` endpoint and your website will be served!

[http://localhost:1633/bzz/b25c89a...214917b/index.html](http://localhost:1633/bzz/b25c89a401d9f26811680476619a1eb4a4e189e614bc6161cbfd8b343214917b/index.html) 

Other files are served at their relative paths, e.g.

[http://localhost:1633/bzz/b25c89a...214917b/assets/style.css](http://localhost:1633/bzz/b25c89a401d9f26811680476619a1eb4a4e189e614bc6161cbfd8b343214917b/assets/style.css) 

Once your data has been [fully processed into the network](/docs/advanced/tags), you will then be able to retrieve it from any Bee node.

[https://gateway.ethswarm.org/bzz/b25c89a...214917b/index.html](https://gateway.ethswarm.org/bzz/b25c89a401d9f26811680476619a1eb4a4e189e614bc6161cbfd8b343214917b/index.html)

<!-- If you are not able to download your file from a different Bee node, you may be experiencing connection issues, see [troubleshooting connectivity](/docs/troubleshooting/connectivitiy) for assistance. -->
