---
title: Welcome!
id: introduction
---

Welcome to the Swarm documentation!

### What is Swarm?

Swarm is peer-to-peer network of Bee nodes that collectively provide censorship resistant decentralised storage and communication services. Swarm's mission is to shape the future towards a self-sovereign global society and permissionless open markets by providing scalable base-layer data storage infrastructure for the decentralised internet. Its incentive system is enforced through smart contracts on the Gnosis Chain blockchain and powered by the xBZZ token, making it economically self-sustaining.

### Documentation Structure

Whether you're a developer looking to build full-service applications on the decentralized web, a node operator interested in participating in maintaining the Swarm network, or just someone interested in learning more about these exciting technologies, this guide has got you covered. The documentation is divided into three main sections, "Learn," "Bee," and "Develop".

In the "Learn" section of the documentation you will find general high-level information about the Swarm network and ecosystem, including an introduction to the Swarm network, the background and development of the project, and a broad overview of tools and resources available to developers and node operators. 

The "Bee" section is aimed at Bee node operators. It provides instructions for installing and maintaining Bee nodes, including accessing the Bee API, participating in the storage incentives system, and details about different node types and configuration options.

The "Develop" section is aimed at developers who want to build dApps using the Swarm network as a decentralized storage layer. It includes guides on how to upload and retrieve data from the Swarm network, how to purchase Postage Stamps and use them to rent storage, how to set up a test network for development purposes, and an overview of additional tools and resources for developers.  

# Swarm

## Swarm Whitepaper and The Book of Swarm

What happens with a Bee node after startup? Want to know more about the Swarm technology behind Bee?
Want to make your own client? Read the <a href="/swarm-whitepaper.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Swarm Whitepaper</a> and for a deeper dive, <a href="/the-book-of-swarm.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">The Book of Swarm</a>,
our 250 page guide to the tech underpinning the Swarm network.

## Bonding Curve

Find more information on the bonding curve, including its [source code](https://github.com/ethersphere/bzzaar-contracts) in the github repository.

# Bee

## Installation

Don't have Bee installed yet? It's easy! Head over to the [installation](/docs/bee/installation/quick-start) section to get Bee up and running.

## Working With Bee

Once Bee is installed, find out how to configure the software, interact with the API, monitor what Bee is up to, and make those all important backups in the [working with Bee](/docs/bee/working-with-bee/introduction) section.

## Access the Swarm

To learn more about how to get the most out of Bee, find out how to [access the swarm](/docs/develop/access-the-swarm/upload-and-download) section so you can share files with your friends, use Bee to host a website on a public Swarm Gateway, and much more!

## API Reference

[Find detailed information](/docs/api-reference/) on all the endpoints available in the autogenerated <a href="/api" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">API reference</a> and <a href="/debug-api" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Debug API reference</a> guides.

## Dapps

Swarm is all about dapps. It strives to provide the most developer
friendly environment on which to build decentralised
organisations. Built on the principles of functionality, flexibility
and accessibility, Bee provides high level constructs for file
storage, feeds and key-value stores, while also providing the low
level access with libraries that create Single Owner and Trojan chunks
clientside, with total e2e privacy. Learn more about how to [develop
on Swarm](/docs/develop/dapps-on-swarm/introduction).

## Incentives

Need even more incentive to get involved with the wonderful world of
Swarm? Find out how you can [earn xBZZ
tokens](/docs/bee/working-with-bee/cashing-out) for storing and
distributing your share of the world's data - sharing is caring!

## Find Out More

Read <a href="/the-book-of-swarm.pdf" target="_blank"
rel="noopener noreferrer">The Book of Swarm</a>, our 250 page epic
guide to the future tech underpinning the Swarm network.

For a lighter read, read the <a href="/swarm-whitepaper.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Swarm Whitepaper</a>.

## Development

Join our efforts! Are you up to the challenge of
helping to create Bee and the other incredible technologies that are
being build on top of it? You are invited to contribute code to the Bee
client or any of the other projects in Swarm's
[Ethersphere](https://github.com/ethersphere).

## Community

There is a vibrant and buzzing community behind Swarm - get involved
in one of our group channels:

-   [Swarm](http://ethswarm.org)
-   [Discord](https://discord.gg/wdghaQsGq5)
-   [Twitter @ethswarm](https://twitter.com/ethswarm)
-   [reddit channel](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethswarm/)
-   [Medium](https://ethswarm.medium.com/)

## Reporting a bug

If your Bee isn't working, get in touch with the [#node-operators channel on Discord](https://discord.gg/wdghaQsGq5) or [let us know on GitHub!](https://github.com/ethersphere/bee/issues) 🐝

Thanks for beeing here, Love and Bees from the Swarm Team x
