docs/learn/tokens.md, before:

---
title: Tokens
id: tokens
---


## Swarm Ecosystem Tokens

### BZZ

BZZ is the original token issued from the [Ethswarm Bonding Curve contract](https://etherscan.io/address/0x4f32ab778e85c4ad0cead54f8f82f5ee74d46904) on the Ethereum blockchain. 

BZZ Ethereum address: [0x19062190b1925b5b6689d7073fdfc8c2976ef8cb](
https://etherscan.io/address/0x19062190b1925b5b6689d7073fdfc8c2976ef8cb)

PLUR is the smallest denomination of BZZ. 1 PLUR is equal to 1e-16 BZZ.

### xBZZ

"xBZZ" is the term used to indicate BZZ on Gnosis Chain. It is the bridged version of the original Ethereum BZZ token issued on Gnosis Chain. xBZZ is the token used for staking and to pay for storage fees on Swarm.

xBZZ Gnosis Chain address: [0xdBF3Ea6F5beE45c02255B2c26a16F300502F68da](https://gnosisscan.io/address/0xdBF3Ea6F5beE45c02255B2c26a16F300502F68da)

:::info
Note that the ticker symbol is the same BZZ for both Gnosis Chain and Ethereum versions of the token. xBZZ is term of convenience used to differentiate the tokens within the Swarm community.
:::

As with BZZ, PLUR is the smallest denomination of xBZZ. 1 PLUR is equal to 1e-16 xBZZ.

### sBZZ

sBZZ is the testnet version of BZZ on the Sepolia Ethereum testnet. 

Sepolia testnet address: [0x543dDb01Ba47acB11de34891cD86B675F04840db](https://sepolia.etherscan.io/address/0x543dDb01Ba47acB11de34891cD86B675F04840db)

### DAI 

DAI is the popular decentralized stablecoin from [MakerDAO](https://makerdao.com/en/).

### xDAI

xDAI is the bridged version of DAI on Gnosis Chain and also serves as the native gas token for Gnosis Chain and is used to pay transaction fees on Gnosis Chain in the same way ETH is used to pay for transactions on Ethereum. It is required by Bee nodes to pay for transaction fees when interacting with Swarm smart contracts on Gnosis Chain.


### Getting BZZ / xBZZ

The Swarm official website has a page with [a list of resources for getting BZZ tokens](https://www.ethswarm.org/get-bzz). Be careful to check whether it is BZZ on Ethereum or Gnosis Chain.


### Bridging BZZ or DAI

If you already have DAI or BZZ on Ethereum then you can use one of the Gnosis Chain bridges to swap for the bridged version of each token on Gnosis Chain (or vice versa). You can use either [xDAI Bridge](https://bridge.gnosischain.com/) or [OmniBridge](https://omni.gnosischain.com/bridge) for swapping between DAI and xDAI or BZZ and xBZZ.

Commit message:

Bonding curve cleanup, add missing dropdown link

docs/learn/tokens.md, after:

---
title: Tokens
id: tokens
---


## Swarm Ecosystem Tokens

### BZZ

:::info
On May 4th of 2024, as a result of a [community vote](https://blog.ethswarm.org/foundation/2024/announcing-the-outcome-of-swarms-bonding-curve-vote/), the bonding curve was [shut down](https://blog.ethswarm.org/foundation/2024/bonding-curve-shutdown/) and the BZZ supply is now fixed at [63,149,437](https://etherscan.io/token/0x19062190b1925b5b6689d7073fdfc8c2976ef8cb).
:::

BZZ is the original token issued from the [Ethswarm Bonding Curve contract](https://etherscan.io/address/0x4f32ab778e85c4ad0cead54f8f82f5ee74d46904) on the Ethereum blockchain. 

BZZ Ethereum address: [0x19062190b1925b5b6689d7073fdfc8c2976ef8cb](
https://etherscan.io/address/0x19062190b1925b5b6689d7073fdfc8c2976ef8cb)

PLUR is the smallest denomination of BZZ. 1 PLUR is equal to 1e-16 BZZ.

### xBZZ

"xBZZ" is the term used to indicate BZZ on Gnosis Chain. It is the bridged version of the original Ethereum BZZ token issued on Gnosis Chain. xBZZ is the token used for staking and to pay for storage fees on Swarm.

xBZZ Gnosis Chain address: [0xdBF3Ea6F5beE45c02255B2c26a16F300502F68da](https://gnosisscan.io/address/0xdBF3Ea6F5beE45c02255B2c26a16F300502F68da)

:::info
Note that the ticker symbol is the same BZZ for both Gnosis Chain and Ethereum versions of the token. xBZZ is term of convenience used to differentiate the tokens within the Swarm community.
:::

As with BZZ, PLUR is the smallest denomination of xBZZ. 1 PLUR is equal to 1e-16 xBZZ.

### sBZZ

sBZZ is the testnet version of BZZ on the Sepolia Ethereum testnet. 

Sepolia testnet address: [0x543dDb01Ba47acB11de34891cD86B675F04840db](https://sepolia.etherscan.io/address/0x543dDb01Ba47acB11de34891cD86B675F04840db)

### DAI 

DAI is the popular decentralized stablecoin from [MakerDAO](https://makerdao.com/en/).

### xDAI

xDAI is the bridged version of DAI on Gnosis Chain and also serves as the native gas token for Gnosis Chain and is used to pay transaction fees on Gnosis Chain in the same way ETH is used to pay for transactions on Ethereum. It is required by Bee nodes to pay for transaction fees when interacting with Swarm smart contracts on Gnosis Chain.


### Getting BZZ / xBZZ

The Swarm official website has a page with [a list of resources for getting BZZ tokens](https://www.ethswarm.org/get-bzz). Be careful to check whether it is BZZ on Ethereum or Gnosis Chain.


### Bridging BZZ or DAI

If you already have DAI or BZZ on Ethereum then you can use one of the Gnosis Chain bridges to swap for the bridged version of each token on Gnosis Chain (or vice versa). You can use either [xDAI Bridge](https://bridge.gnosischain.com/) or [OmniBridge](https://omni.gnosischain.com/bridge) for swapping between DAI and xDAI or BZZ and xBZZ.
