docs/introduction.md, before:

---
id: introduction
title: Welcome!
slug: /
---

Hello and welcome to the swarm! We are very happy to have you here with us! 🐝 

As soon as your Bee client is up and running you will begin to connect with peers all over the world to become a part of Swarm, a global p2p network tasked with storing and distributing all of the world's data.

Swarm is a decentralised data storage and distribution technology, ready to power the next generation of censorship resistant, unstoppable serverless apps. It is the complement to blockchain based smart contracts originally envisaged by the Ethereum cryptocurrency and provides the mass storage piece in the Dapp building puzzle. 

Swarm is economically self-sustaining due to a built-in incentive system enforced through smart contracts on the Ethereum blockchain. Swarm aspires to shape the future towards a self-sovereign global society and permissionless open markets. Applications can run autonomously yet securely in a planetary-scale deployment and execution environment.

## Installation
Don't have Bee installed yet? It's easy! Head over to the [installation](/docs/installation/quick-start) section to get Bee up and running.

## Working With Bee
Once you have Bee installed, find out how to configure your software, interact with the API, monitor what Bee is up to, and make those all important backups in the [working with Bee](/docs/working-with-bee/introduction) section.

## Access the Swarm
To learn more about how to get the most out of Bee, find out how to [access the swarm](/docs/access-the-swarm/upload-and-download) section so you can share files with your friends, use Bee to host a website on a public Swarm Gateway, and much more!
	
## API Reference
[Find detailed information](/docs/api-reference/api-reference) on all the endpoints available in the autogenerated <a href="/api" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">API reference</a> and <a href="/debug-api" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Debug API reference</a> guides.

## Dapps
Swarm is all about dapps. We strive to provide the most developer friendly environment on which to build your decentralised organisation. Built on the principles of functionality, flexibility and accessibility, Bee provides high level constructs for file storage, feeds and key-value stores, while also providing the low level access with libraries that create Single Owner and Trojan chunks clientside, with total e2e privacy. Learn more about how to [develop on Swarm](/docs/dapps-on-swarm/introduction)

## Incentives
Need even more incentive to get involved with the wonderful world of Swarm? Find out how you'll soon be [earning gBZZ tokens](/docs/working-with-bee/cashing-out) for storing and distributing your share of the worlds data, sharing is caring!

## Find Out More
What happens with your Bee node when you start it up? Want to know more about the amazing Swarm technology behind Bee?
Want to make your own client? Read <a href="/the-book-of-swarm-viktor-tron-v1.0-pre-release7.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">The Book of Swarm</a> ,
our 250 page epic guide to the future tech underpinning the Swarm network.

## Development
We'd love you to join us! Are you up to the challenge of helping us to create Bee and the other incredible technologies we're building on top of it? You are invited to contribute code to the Bee Client or any of the other projects in Swarm's [Ethersphere](https://github.com/ethersphere).

## Community
There is a vibrant and buzzing community behind Swarm, get involved in one of our group channels.

- [Swarm](http://ethswarm.org)
- [Discord](https://discord.gg/wdghaQsGq5)
- [Twitter @ethswarm](https://twitter.com/ethswarm)
- [reddit channel](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethswarm/)
- [Medium](https://ethswarm.medium.com/)

## Reporting a bug
If your Bee isn't working, get in touch with our [#bee-support channel on Discord](https://discord.gg/wdghaQsGq5) or [let us know on GitHub!](https://github.com/ethersphere/bee/issues) Every Bee is important to us and we'll get right to work on fixing it for you as soon as possible. 🐝

Thanks for being here, we wish you Love and Bees from the Swarm Team x

Commit message:

add whitepaper, improve book url

docs/introduction.md, after:

---
id: introduction
title: Welcome!
slug: /
---

Hello and welcome to the swarm! We are very happy to have you here with us! 🐝 

As soon as your Bee client is up and running you will begin to connect with peers all over the world to become a part of Swarm, a global p2p network tasked with storing and distributing all of the world's data.

Swarm is a decentralised data storage and distribution technology, ready to power the next generation of censorship resistant, unstoppable serverless apps. It is the complement to blockchain based smart contracts originally envisaged by the Ethereum cryptocurrency and provides the mass storage piece in the Dapp building puzzle. 

Swarm is economically self-sustaining due to a built-in incentive system enforced through smart contracts on the Ethereum blockchain. Swarm aspires to shape the future towards a self-sovereign global society and permissionless open markets. Applications can run autonomously yet securely in a planetary-scale deployment and execution environment.

## Installation
Don't have Bee installed yet? It's easy! Head over to the [installation](/docs/installation/quick-start) section to get Bee up and running.

## Working With Bee
Once you have Bee installed, find out how to configure your software, interact with the API, monitor what Bee is up to, and make those all important backups in the [working with Bee](/docs/working-with-bee/introduction) section.

## Access the Swarm
To learn more about how to get the most out of Bee, find out how to [access the swarm](/docs/access-the-swarm/upload-and-download) section so you can share files with your friends, use Bee to host a website on a public Swarm Gateway, and much more!
	
## API Reference
[Find detailed information](/docs/api-reference/api-reference) on all the endpoints available in the autogenerated <a href="/api" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">API reference</a> and <a href="/debug-api" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Debug API reference</a> guides.

## Dapps
Swarm is all about dapps. We strive to provide the most developer friendly environment on which to build your decentralised organisation. Built on the principles of functionality, flexibility and accessibility, Bee provides high level constructs for file storage, feeds and key-value stores, while also providing the low level access with libraries that create Single Owner and Trojan chunks clientside, with total e2e privacy. Learn more about how to [develop on Swarm](/docs/dapps-on-swarm/introduction)

## Incentives
Need even more incentive to get involved with the wonderful world of Swarm? Find out how you'll soon be [earning gBZZ tokens](/docs/working-with-bee/cashing-out) for storing and distributing your share of the worlds data, sharing is caring!

## Find Out More
What happens with your Bee node when you start it up? Want to know more about the amazing Swarm technology behind Bee?
Want to make your own client? Read the <a href="/swarm-whitepaper.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Swarm Whitepaper</a> and for a deeper dive, <a href="/the-book-of-swarm.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">The Book of Swarm</a> ,
our 250 page epic guide to the future tech underpinning the Swarm network.

## Development
We'd love you to join us! Are you up to the challenge of helping us to create Bee and the other incredible technologies we're building on top of it? You are invited to contribute code to the Bee Client or any of the other projects in Swarm's [Ethersphere](https://github.com/ethersphere).

## Community
There is a vibrant and buzzing community behind Swarm, get involved in one of our group channels.

- [Swarm](http://ethswarm.org)
- [Discord](https://discord.gg/wdghaQsGq5)
- [Twitter @ethswarm](https://twitter.com/ethswarm)
- [reddit channel](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethswarm/)
- [Medium](https://ethswarm.medium.com/)

## Reporting a bug
If your Bee isn't working, get in touch with our [#bee-support channel on Discord](https://discord.gg/wdghaQsGq5) or [let us know on GitHub!](https://github.com/ethersphere/bee/issues) Every Bee is important to us and we'll get right to work on fixing it for you as soon as possible. 🐝

Thanks for being here, we wish you Love and Bees from the Swarm Team x
