docs/installation/fund-your-node.md, before:

---
title: Fund Your Node
id: fund-your-node
---

Your Bee node needs gBZZ to be able to properly interact with the network. In order to receive these, you will need to sign into our Discord and request your gBZZ test tokens from the [#faucet](https://discord.gg/kfKvmZfVfe) channel, using your node's Ethereum address.

To work out what your node's Ethereum address is, please consult your relevant installation guide or check your logs!

Once you have determined your Ethereum address, join our [Discord server](https://discord.gg/wdghaQsGq5) and navigate to the [#faucet](https://discord.gg/kfKvmZfVfe) channel. After you have [verified your username](https://discord.gg/tXGPdzZQaV) (and said hi! 👋 ), use our Faucet Bot to get your test tokens.

Here you must **type** (not copy paste) the following, replacing the address with your own:

```
/faucet sprinkle 0xabeeecdef123452a40f6ea9f598596ca8556bd57
```

If you have problems, please let us know by making a post in the [#faucet](https://discord.gg/kfKvmZfVfe) channel, we will do our best to provide tokens to everyone. 

Transactions may take a while to complete, please be patient. We're also keen for you to join us in the swarm, and indeed you soon will! 🐝 &nbsp 🐝 &nbsp 🐝

Commit message:

Add note to access the Discord faucet with a Chromium-based client
The command popup would not show on Firefox, and would instantly disappear without acknowledgement from the bot if typed in. Switching to Chromium solved this problem for me

docs/installation/fund-your-node.md, after:

---
title: Fund Your Node
id: fund-your-node
---

Your Bee node needs gBZZ to be able to properly interact with the network. In order to receive these, you will need to sign into our Discord and request your gBZZ test tokens from the [#faucet](https://discord.gg/kfKvmZfVfe) channel, using your node's Ethereum address.

To work out what your node's Ethereum address is, please consult your relevant installation guide or check your logs!

Once you have determined your Ethereum address, join our [Discord server](https://discord.gg/wdghaQsGq5) and navigate to the [#faucet](https://discord.gg/kfKvmZfVfe) channel. After you have [verified your username](https://discord.gg/tXGPdzZQaV) (and said hi! 👋 ), use our Faucet Bot to get your test tokens.

Here you must **type** (not copy paste) the following, replacing the address with your own:

```
/faucet sprinkle 0xabeeecdef123452a40f6ea9f598596ca8556bd57
```

If you have problems, please let us know by making a post in the [#faucet](https://discord.gg/kfKvmZfVfe) channel, we will do our best to provide tokens to everyone. 

Note that you should use a Chromium-based client (e.g., Chrome, native Discord client) to type the faucet command, as support for other browsers is spotty. It's reported to not work on Firefox, for example.

Transactions may take a while to complete, please be patient. We're also keen for you to join us in the swarm, and indeed you soon will! 🐝 &nbsp 🐝 &nbsp 🐝
