docs/installation/simple-node.md, before:

---
title: Installation
---

## Supported platforms

The client can be installed on MacOS and various Linux flavors.

## Installing the Bee binary
At every official release, we release the binary files of our software. You can download them by navigating to [releases](https://github.com/ethersphere/bee/releases).

A convenient way to download the binary is:

```sh
wget https://github.com/ethersphere/bee/releases/latest/download/bee-darwin-amd64 -O /usr/local/bin/bee
chmod +x /usr/local/bin/bee
```

Please change the last part of the url (`bee-darwin-amd64`), if you are not on a `darwin-amd64` system. A list of supported systems is available at [releases](https://github.com/ethersphere/bee/releases).

## Installing Bee with Docker
Bee can be run as a docker container.

Download bee as a docker container by running:

`docker pull ethersphere/bee:<version>`

Where version is the release which you want to download (see [releases](https://github.com/ethersphere/bee/releases)).

Please see [Dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/r/ethersphere/bee) for more information.

## Installation from source
<!-- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ethersphere/bee/master/README.md -->

Prerequisites for installing Bee from source are:

- Go - download the latest release from [golang.org](https://golang.org/dl),
- git - download from [git-scm.com](https://git-scm.com/) or install with your package manager,
- make.

1) Clone the repository:
```sh
git clone https://github.com/ethersphere/bee
cd bee
```

2) Use `git` to find the latest release:
```sh
git describe --tags
```

3) Checkout the latest release:

```sh
git checkout <name_of_latest_tag>
```

4) Build the binary and move the binary to your path:

```sh
make binary
cp dist/bee /usr/local/bin/bee
```

5) You should now be able to run the `bee` command, which you can verify by running:
```sh
bee version
```

Which should return the version number of the Bee you are running.

Commit message:

add instructions to use install.sh script

docs/installation/simple-node.md, after:

---
title: Installation
---

## Supported platforms

The client can be installed on MacOS, Windows and various Linux flavors.

## Installing the Bee binary
We provide a convenient [install script](https://github.com/ethersphere/bee/blob/637b67a8e0a2b15e707f510bb7f49aea4ef6c110/install.sh), which automatically detects the execution environment of your systemd and gets the correct binary.
We advice to use the binary of the latest release, but you can also get the edge release (latest) master.

#### Latest release
- Using wget:
```console
wget -q -O - https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ethersphere/bee/master/install.sh | TAG=v0.2.0 bash
```
- Using curl:
```console
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ethersphere/bee/master/install.sh | TAG=v0.2.0 bash
```
:::info
Find the latest release of Bee by navigating to [bee](https://github.com/ethersphere/bee/releases/tag/) and use this release (e.g. v0.2.0) behind the TAG= in the commands above
:::

#### Edge
- Using wget:
 ```console
 wget -q -O - https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ethersphere/bee/master/install.sh | bash
 ```

 - Using curl:
 ```console
 curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ethersphere/bee/master/install.sh | bash
 ```
:::caution
 If you use the latest master, this documentation is not guaranteed to be up-to-date
:::

## Installing Bee with Docker
Bee can be run as a docker container.

Download bee as a docker container by running:

`docker pull ethersphere/bee:<version>`

Where version is the release which you want to download (see [releases](https://github.com/ethersphere/bee/releases)).

Please see [Dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/r/ethersphere/bee) for more information.

## Installation from source
<!-- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ethersphere/bee/master/README.md -->

Prerequisites for installing Bee from source are:

- Go - download the latest release from [golang.org](https://golang.org/dl),
- git - download from [git-scm.com](https://git-scm.com/) or install with your package manager,
- make.

1) Clone the repository:
```sh
git clone https://github.com/ethersphere/bee
cd bee
```

2) Use `git` to find the latest release:
```sh
git describe --tags
```

3) Checkout the latest release:

```sh
git checkout <name_of_latest_tag>
```

4) Build the binary and move the binary to your path:

```sh
make binary
cp dist/bee /usr/local/bin/bee
```

5) You should now be able to run the `bee` command, which you can verify by running:
```sh
bee version
```

Which should return the version number of the Bee you are running.
